[MUSIC]
So picamera is the name of the library
that we were going to use to control this
raspberry's picamera and
we'll talk about that in this lecture.
Start talking about it any rate.
So the python-picamera library.
It has a bunch of functions and we'll go
through a set of these functions, not all,
but we'll go through sort of the
highlights and you can always google this
and just see a list of basically
every single function that it has.
So first thing you're going to
want to do is install the library, so
you're going to do a sudo
apt-get update for safety.
Just update is always a good thing to do.
But then sudo apt-get
install python3-picamera.
I say python3, because I'm assuming
we're using Python 3.x, not 2.x.
If you're using 2.x, you just say
python-picamera, but we're using 3.x, so
python3-picamera.
And that'll install it.
Now if you, to use the library,
you import the library.
So import picamera.
You start off with that always.
Then the first thing you're going to
want to do is instantiate an object
of the PiCamera class.
So we'll say camera, we'll call it camera,
camera = picamera.PiCamera.
So that creates an object of
the PiCamera capital P, capital C class.
So we've got this camera object now.
Now once we've got the camera object we
can start calling methods on the camera
that do various things to the camera.
So let's go through some
of these camera functions
that you invoke through camera methods.
So you can take a picture, right?
Capture a picture,
camera.capture("pict.jpg").
Now, note that it's saving a JPG, right?
You give it a filename, it'll save it.
It can save in different formats.
We won't really go into that, but
if you look at this, JPEG is an encoded,
not encrypted, but
it's a compressed format.
That takes a little bit of extra time
to do the compression operation.
You can also save it raw and
we'll look at that,
actually I don't know
if we'll look at that.
But you can save it raw
without the compression, but
the picture's much bigger.
And there are other formats you can
choose with other input options,
but just take this vanilla method
right here, camera.capture and
you give the file name,
it'll save it with that name.
So that's the most obvious thing
you want to do with the camera.
Now, there are lots of different camera
settings, and you can change them.
And we're not going to list them all.
Again, Google is your friend with this and
you can get a list of
all the camera settings.
But let's just go through a bunch of them.
You change them all in the code.
So, camera.hflip, horizontal flip,
right, camera.vflip,
vertical flip, true, false, whatever.
Camera.brightness, that's 0 to 100,
so you can set the brightness.
Camera sharpness set to 0, right?
You can change these settings, these and
many more all the different tweaks on
the camera's properties to change
the way the camera captures the image.
But it's very simple just
invoke these methods on camera.
Or rather these aren't methods,
these are actually attributes
that are part of pi camera class.
So you can change them directly.
Viewing video on the Raspberry Pi screen.
So this is something that
you often want to do.
You say camera.start preview,
that starts a preview.
You can view the video that the camera is
capturing, view it live on the screen,
through the HDMI port,
on the screen of your Raspberry Pi.
And then whenever you call this function,
this method,
stop preview, that will stop the preview.
Now note that this preview is putting
it on the Raspberry Pi screen but
it is not saving the video anywhere.
It's not capturing video.
It's just taking whatever
video's running in real time and
putting it on the screen for
you so you can see it.
And you can start that and stop that.
You can also capture video of course.
So how do you capture video?
It's pretty easy.
In this case I'm just
saying import pi.camera,
like usual, import time because
I want to have a sleep function.
I can say camera.start_recording,
that's the name of the method.
I give the name of a file and
it starts recording and
saving the data in that file.
Then I sleep for 10 seconds,
and then camera stop recording.
So this will record for 10 seconds.
So it's very simple to
actually do recordings, and
there are lots of variations on this, the
file format you save it in and so on, but
it's very straightforward to use
this thing and to record a video.
Now one thing to note about these
videos is that this thing is saving,
probably to the flash on the Raspberry Pi
and the space can be limited, right?
Actually I think depending
on the directory you choose,
it won't go to the flash, it'll go to
the SD, which is also a flash, but
it will go to that micro SD.
That thing has limited space, right?
So video can hog up a lot of space,
so just be wary of that,
that when you are recording these videos
you may use up its space pretty quickly.
You can record too much.
And you'll see that.
So hopefully it doesn't.
It might fail.
So if you run out of memory space,
it'll fail,
and it'll throw some kind of an error.
But, just be aware of that.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]